---
layout: posts
title: Fedora 21 on a Macbook Pro 2014
categories: Fedora MacbookPro
tags: fedora
---

OS X is still a challenge for me. It's buggy, extremely closed and is as far from solving my needs as Windows XP was. I acknowledge a lot of people love this operating system, however, and I really respect their opinion. It just does not work for me. I'll post here my experience on configuring Fedora 21. 

Out of the box, there are a few things that do not work quite well.

* Firefox fonts are really, really small
* Jack sound adapter has a red light......!
* Wireless board won't work
* Considerable heating when compared to OS X

I'll address these topics as well as other topics, such as which distribution I've used.


<!-- Split Here - Snapshot -->


** Which Fedora spin have I used?

As matter of fact I have used Fedora Workstation, which is based on Gnome 3. This is not my first choice as I've been using KDE for a while now. However, the Retina support seems better on Gnome. I've tried Fedora with KDE, XFCE and Mate, and with none of them the Retina display worked out of the box. While you can still fix the font scaling in KDE, it won't deliver the same quality as Gnome right now.

I have also tried booting with Elementary OS. While they are doing a damn good job, I think it's not really that stable and I noticed some minor bugs. I'd totally recommend it to a novice user used to Debian/Ubuntu based systems.


** Fixing firefox fonts

Edit prefs.js and look for the following line:
::
user_pref("layout.css.devPixelsPerPx", "1");

Adjust the value (1 above) to whatever you need. For me, 2 worked really fine. Depending on the model of your Macbook Pro, it may vary down to 1.5 though.


